but let me ask you if this [ __ ] were
true if these lies spread by people like
freely were true would you want to be
part of that movement would you want to
be part of a movement that's defined as
uniting the prettiest people because I'd
rather be part of a movement that's
actually uniting people who have in
common a fundamental ethical commitment
to a long-term goal to make the world a
better place to me that's beautiful this
young boy know that vegan thanksgiving
it oh how not to bring everybody but the
whole god thing we eat nuts what grandpa
to tell my [ __ ] I might jump into the
would be 0 to 30 get everything to get
this whole working life magazine the
category the back up [ __ ] get a rose in
a tofu turkey got call Freddy got stuck
mashed potatoes so good with Joe Mande
he got three reasons if you got yams
with it got Kevin degrees with no ham in
it you can fit your plate up without all
the guilt will pass a big another almond
milk everything you touch gonna be there
free even though I don't care for me
what if been a vegan society to you so
why did you go vegan oh well I went
vegan after I met my first ever vegan um
I been to university and being
brainwashed in my vette my science
course into believing that humans had to
eat animals to survive we were told that
was a necessary evil so just get over it
and eat you meet and otherwise you're
going to die and then I met this woman
at in Animal Liberation office and we
got talking and she said to me are you a
vegan and I said what is that so I've
heard the word vegetarian didn't know
what a big must have never even heard
the word before and when she told me I
said well I am now this is a really
short video that makes a really simple
point um I think that at the core of
veganism we all have an obligation to
prove to meat eaters to prove to our own
friends and family and relatives that
you can have a normal life and be vegan
a tiny minority of people watching this
video have no idea what I'm talking
about because their own parents are
vegan or they grew up in a cultural
context or veganism is widely understood
and accepted but for ninety-nine percent
of us there's an onus on us there's a
weight on our shoulders just to prove
you can have a normal life and be vegan
you can be healthy and be vegan all the
time people sincerely express to me
doubt about whether or not they can get
enough protein and if you whether or not
that can be healthy were there not just
challenging you were pulling your chain
where they really doubt that it's
possible so we we all go through that
99% of us go through that I think part
of the phenomenon of youtube vid ISM the
digital demi-monde the short-lived fame
of freelee the banana girl was that we
saw that basic struggle that basic
concept being corrupted into not just
you can have a normal life but you can
have a superior life you will be more
beautiful you will be more healthy you
will be superior in every way if you
become vegan and then the next step
which I think people took without really
thinking about it was to claim only
vegans can be beautiful only vegans can
be healthy which freely really did claim
in so many ways big and small she
claimed that everyone else who was
skinny was lying to their audience was
really bulimic or was really engaged in
other extreme diets crash diets cyclic
fasting rather unhealthy parrot that the
only way you could have a great body
naturally and without using drugs in a
healthy manner the only way you could
effortlessly EP beautiful etc etc was
through veganism I think there's a funny
parallel ism in what we've seen happen
in third-wave feminism right in
third-wave feminism the latest
incarnation feminism I think we saw a
similarly unexamined sequence of steps
taken from
the basic and uncontroversial idea of
female equality into female superiority
and then there's a next step after that
we're only women get to speak only women
get to have an opinion what's not just
superiority is not just a relative
superiority but in various contexts it's
an absolute superiority that men aren't
allowed to disagree men aren't allowed
to debate that it's female exclusivity
at this conference at this event etc etc
um I mean the reality is you know like I
feel like the real moral the story with
third-wave feminism is that we have to
go back and re-examine the fundamentals
of first wave feminism I think that the
real moral the story as we've seen the
conceits and the over-the-top claims
about beauty and health made by freely
collapse we have to go back and look at
the fundamentals in veganism what it was
we were trying to prove in the first
place how we got this chip on our
shoulder of saying we're healthy too
because I mean that's I can relate to it
part of the whole thing with having
these bodybuilders take off their shirts
and flex their muscles and show hey you
can be V gonna be muscular the point
originally wasn't to show that vegans
were superior to meteors it was just to
show we're not weak were not unhealthy
you could have a normal life too and be
vegan but at some point people lost
sight of that that it was just trying to
talk about normalcy and not superiority
and not vanity and not an exclusive or
special claims saying we're the only
ones who are pretty were the only ones
who are thinner were the only ones who
are muscular without using steroids or
these kinds of ridiculous things and if
you've been following what's been going
on in veganism at the last five years
you've heard a lot of claims exactly
like that I'll just say briefly when I
look at videos from real vegans who have
been real activists or even real
dietitians real health experts who've
just been living as vegans for 30 years
sometimes you'll go
they're not extraordinarily beautiful
they're normal you know and I think the
worst thing about that other delusion
that all vegans ought to be
extraordinary I'll have to be
extraordinarily thin extraordinary
beautiful extraordinarily strong
extraordinarily athletic it's exactly
that it leads us to silence or disregard
or ignore a lot of vegans who may have
really important perspectives who may
have something really important to
contribute to the movement but who may
be fat who may be ugly who may be
middle-aged to maybe elderly that in a
sense there's a whole older generation
of people who don't look like bikini
models now don't look like bodybuilders
now maybe they never did maybe just
because they're a research scientist
involved in health science they just
have other that's not what they look
like you know it's not who they are and
it's focused so much of our attention on
this tiny subset of people who maybe are
the best prepared to literally do a a
photo shoot to support veganism but who
may be the least able and the least
prepared to eloquently speak on behalf
of veganism scientifically politically
or in other forums that in the long run
are just much more important to what it
is we're trying to do for the animals
for the environment for ethics for every
little thing big and small I used to
honestly go years without meeting
another vegan because back in today's ad
in dark ages before we had internet and
I used to type out the news that after
the vegans are starting on an old
typewriter and then go and photocopy
them with some machine that smelled of
alcohol and then put them in envelopes
and post them out if you watch this
channel for a long time you heard me say
a long long time ago that when I look at
a photograph of a meeting a meet-up of
vegans on my university campus in Canada
they're not the best looking people on
campus they're not extraordinarily
beautiful they're not extraordinarily
healthy they're not extraordinary
athletic they're not their average or
there were random assortment they're
just not this myth that vegans are
glowing and vital
more beautiful and more health than
emeralds they can't see it in real life
you can't see it if you'll get a
photograph of who shows up at a hardcore
animal rights conference again some of
them going to be middle-aged people
something road but all ages unlike my
University obviously everyone in the
photo is pretty young because you're
talking about university students
they're not the best looking people
they're not but let me ask you if this
[ __ ] were true if these lies spread
by people like freely were true would
you want to be part of that movement
would you want to be part of a movement
that's defined as uniting the prettiest
people because I'd rather be part of a
movement that's actually uniting people
who have in common a fundamental ethical
commitment to a long-term goal to make
the world a better place to me that's
beautiful no sermon and got no ramp oh
but you know I got a notice
and get them creamed potatoes the peas
crees potatoes whoa whoa